hi everybody its Jill with mommy
vignettes and I'm excited to do a video
today this is actually a viewer request
to do some series of videos on childhood
development and good ways to educate
your kids through different stages
throughout their first year and even
beyond so um I found that kind of
stimulating and entertaining my daughter
and stimulating her when she was a
newborn and throughout her first year
wasn't that difficult we had plenty of
toys and things to keep her entertained
now that she's 18 months old I'm finding
us a little harder to find activities
and educational toys for her so if you
guys have any advice so I'm here to find
some activities and different toys or
products that I can use just really
activity isn't looking for things that
are free that I can just do around our
house with my daughter that would be
great if you can share that so anything
for like a toddler because she's getting
you know I'm wanting to teach her colors
and numbers and letters and things like
that and she doesn't talk very much yet
but I'm just kind of trying it finding
that it's hard to keep her entertained
well at this age so um so today I'm just
gonna do a quick video on kind of things
to simulate and can entertain your
newborn so this will be zero to three
months of age and then I'll probably do
on a video on three to six months 6 to 9
9 to 12 and those kind of things and
then 12 to 18 months so I'll be working
on those as we go along so this one
today is just sorta three months it's
one of your babies just a newborn fresh
home and you're trying to learn the ins
and outs of being a new mom or juggle a
new a new baby with other kids living at
home so just to start off I just wanted
to show you some different resources
where I got some of my information from
as well as just good things to have on
hand that talked about childhood
development
so first couple of books that I would
recommend on this first one you sure
you've all heard of the what to expect
series and there's What to Expect When
You're Expecting and then what to expect
during the
first year and much to expect the second
year so there's lots of these books and
this one's what to expect the first year
and I found this really helpful and I
got this for free I think somebody just
gave it to me I don't think it's the
most updated version but you can get
these from the library so I would go
spend a lot of money on it because you
can get it for free or really cheap lots
of places but this was a really good
guide for me it talks all about the
different stages and what to expect at
different stages of your baby's first
year and this specifically talks about
different developmental milestones that
they should reach during each stage
within the first year so this was a
great resource for me and then the other
book that I have almost read front to
back as this book it's the Huggies the
that says the complete and authoritative
guide caring for your baby and young
child birth to age five and this is
recommended by the American Academy of
Pediatrics and this is a wonderful book
I've looked in this book several several
times and it goes all the way up to age
five I love that there's a section in
the back on different illnesses and
symptoms and what to do for that and it
specifically goes through different
milestones developmentally that your
child should be meeting whether that's
on visual milestones or motor skills
different things like that and it gives
you different suggestions for toys and
products that you can use to help
stimulate your child at different ages
so I would recommend this book for sure
and I'll put all the information on
these books down below so you can check
that out so getting on to the zero and
three-month stage um at this stage they
don't really need a lot of toys and
things they really can be entertained a
lot by just your face and doing simple
activities with your baby so to start
off until they're about two months old
your baby can't even see more than about
12 inches away so if you're across the
room they're not really gonna be able to
see you or focus on you until they're
about two months old
one thing that babies do love are bold
bright colors and contrasting patterns
so things like white black and red
colors really stick out to them really
bold and contrasting colors and then
pattern so you'll see a lot of baby toys
and
we play mats that have tons of different
patterns floral checkered polka-dots all
sorts of different things and babies
were really grasped on to that and
they'll have to focus on those kind of
things so the one thing you can remember
for educating and stimulating your
newborns or to three months or the three
ends so you have music boxes or music
Mobile's and mirrors so babies love
those three ends especially near so if
you have a little mirror I have when I
could find it with a little handle they
love they can grasp onto that they can
clasp and close their hand when they're
newborn so they can hold on to things
they can look in the mirror they love
that and looking at their you know
reflection really close Mobile's are
great and music they love listening to
music so those are great things also
some toys you can get for them and just
little plush toys and things that make
noise that they can grasp onto anything
small like that little rattles are
perfect we have a little rattle this
one's a little bit big you can get
smaller rattles with smaller handles but
they can hold on to those and shake it
and it makes noise and they love that
and then this is just an example of just
some different contrasting colors and
patterns that babies love in different
textures okay so your babies your two
three months it's not going to be able
to crawl or sit up or move around really
so even if you don't have a lot of toys
you can just do simple activities with
them like laying them down you know in
their crib or on their diaper changing
table or on your lap or just doing
simple little you know like playing
peek-a-boo with them massaging their
arms and their hands I'm just kind of
touching their body smiling doing
different facial expressions really
close to their face they love all those
kinds of things that would really help
to stimulate them and you can sing to
your baby
simply talking to your baby they love
those kinds of kinds of things and then
you always want to be careful that
things that you do have your baby play
with that there they won't break and
that you know they're really soft so if
the baby's holding and they drop it on
themselves
not gonna hurt or have any sharp edges
or anything like that and then the other
thing that I would recommend is getting
some type of activity mat and there's a
ton of different kinds and mines packed
away in our basement so I didn't get it
out but I can link you below to the one
that we did yeah we got a Babies R Us
and it was like $30 they have activity
mats that are up to like a hundred
dollars and I did not want to spend
hundred dollars so we spent about 25 to
30 dollars on one and it was perfect it
has a soft mat on the bottom it has for
like stability things that come up and
then from the top it hangs some little
plush toys and we she could do tummy
time on the on the mat or she could get
on her back and look up at the things
dangling and that would keep her
entertained for a long time she loved
that and sometimes I'd kind of crawl
under there and lay with her so she
loved that so those are just some I
guess for some things you can do to
entertain and stimulate your baby from 0
to 3 months of age and then just one
thing to keep in mind as well as a final
note that all babies develop differently
in a different stages so some babies
obviously walk as early as like eight
months and some don't walk until
eighteen months some sit up sooner than
others some served across so you know
that's why I like these books they just
gave kind of a general this is what your
babies should be doing within this time
period and these are some warning signs
if your baby isn't meeting these
developmental milestones so if your
baby's not doing a certain task at a
certain time it's probably okay and you
can give them a little leeway so if
there's any questions please give me
more video ideas I would love it and if
you like this video let me know comment
below especially if you have ideas for
activities to do with your baby that
that work and with your toddler I would
love to know that so thanks everybody
for watching bye